
```
Code samples were posted.
```


## Deep-Reinforcement Learning Multiple Access for Heterogeneous Wireless Networks (DLMA)
Our paper has been accepted by IEEE JSAC, see the [early access version](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8665952) or our conference version in [IEEE ICC 2018](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8422168/).
### Abstract
This paper investigates a deep reinforcement learning (DRL)-based MAC protocol for heterogeneous wireless networking, referred to as a Deep-reinforcement Learning Multiple Access (DLMA). Specifically, we consider the scenario of a number of networks operating different MAC protocols trying to access the time slots of a common wireless medium. A key challenge in our problem formulation is that we assume our DLMA network does not know the operating principles of the MACs of the other networks—i.e., DLMA does not know how the other MACs make decisions on when to transmit and when not to. The goal of DLMA is to be able to learn an optimal channel access strategy to achieve a certain pre-specified global objective. Possible objectives include maximizing the sum throughput and maximizing alpha-fairness among all networks. The underpinning learning process of DLMA is based on DRL. With proper definitions of the state space, action space, and rewards in DRL, we show that DLMA can easily maximize the sum throughput by judiciously selecting certain time slots to transmit. Maximizing general alpha-fairness, however, is beyond the means of the conventional reinforcement learning (RL) framework. We put forth a new multi-dimensional RL framework that enables DLMA to maximize general alpha-fairness. Our extensive simulation results show that DLMA can maximize sum throughput or achieve proportional fairness (two special classes of alpha-fairness) when coexisting with TDMA and ALOHA MAC protocols without knowing they are TDMA or ALOHA. Importantly, we show the merit of incorporating the use of neural networks into the RL framework (i.e., why DRL and not just traditional RL): specifically, the use of DRL allows DLMA (i) to learn the optimal strategy with much faster speed and (ii) to be more robust in that it can still learn a near-optimal strategy even when the parameters in the RL framework are not optimally set.




## Carrier-Sense Multiple Access for Heterogeneous Wireless Networks Using Deep-Reinforcement Learning (CS-DLMA)
The paper introduces carrier sensing and differnt packet lengths into DLMA. This paper has been submitted to a conference. See the conference version on [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.06830).  
### Abstract
This paper investigates a new class of carrier-sense multiple access (CSMA) protocols that employ deep reinforcement learning (DRL) techniques for heterogeneous wireless networking, referred to as carrier-sense deep-reinforcement learning multiple access (CS-DLMA). Existing CSMA protocols, such as the medium access control (MAC) of WiFi, are designed for a homogeneous network environment in which all nodes adopt the same protocol. Such protocols suffer from severe performance degradation in a heterogeneous environment where there are nodes adopting other MAC protocols. This paper shows that DRL techniques can be used to design efficient MAC protocols for heterogeneous networking. In particular, in a heterogeneous environment with nodes adopting different MAC protocols (e.g., CS-DLMA, TDMA, and ALOHA), a CS-DLMA node can learn to maximize the sum throughput of all nodes. Furthermore, compared with WiFi's CSMA, CS-DLMA can achieve both higher sum throughput and individual throughputs when coexisting with other MAC protocols. Last but not least, a salient feature of CS-DLMA is that it does not need to know the operating mechanisms of the co-existing MACs. Neither does it need to know the number of nodes using these other MACs.

